[SDK-3286] Add Vue SPA Interactive QuickStart (#10074)
auth0/docs: articles/quickstart/spa/vuejs/interactive.md

---
title: Add Login to your Vue App
description: "Auth0 allows you to add authentication to almost any application type quickly. This guide demonstrates how to integrate Auth0, add authentication, and display user profile information in any Vue application using the Auth0 Vue SDK."
topics:
  - quickstarts
  - spa
  - vuejs
  - login
github:
  path: 01-Login
sample_download_required_data:
  - client
contentType: tutorial
useCase: quickstart
interactive: true
files:
  - files/index
  - files/login
  - files/logout
  - files/profile
---

> # Add Login to your Vue App

Reviewer: Style guide: titles should be sentence case

```suggestion
# Add login to your Vue app
```

> Auth0 allows you to add authentication to almost any application type quickly. This guide demonstrates how to integrate Auth0, add authentication, and display user profile information in any Vue application using the Auth0 Vue SDK.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Auth0 allows you to add authentication to almost any application type. This guide demonstrates how to integrate Auth0, add authentication, and display user profile information in any Vue application using the Auth0 Vue SDK.
```

::: warning
This quickstart is designed for using [Auth0 Vue](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-vue) with Vue 3 applications. If you are using Vue 2, please check out the [Vue 2 Tutorial with Auth0 SPA SDK](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-vue/blob/main/tutorial/vue2-login.md) instead.
:::

> 
> To use this quickstart, you’ll need to:
> - Sign up for a free Auth0 account or log in to Auth0.
> - Have a working Vue project that you want to integrate with. Alternatively, you can view or download a sample application after logging in.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

To use this quickstart, you will need:
- A free Auth0 account or log in to Auth0.
- A working Vue project that you want to integrate with OR you can download a sample application after logging in.
```

<%= include('../../_includes/_configure_auth0_interactive', { 
  callback: 'http://localhost:3000',
  returnTo: 'http://localhost:3000',
  webOriginUrl: 'http://localhost:3000',
  showWebOriginInfo: true
}) %>

## Install the Auth0 Vue SDK {{{ data-action=code data-code="index.js" }}}

Auth0 provides a [Vue SDK](https://github.com/auth0/auth0-vue) to simplify the process of implementing Auth0 authentication and authorization in Vue 3 apps.

Install the Auth0 Vue SDK by running the following commands in your terminal:

```bash
cd <your-project-directory>
npm install @auth0/auth0-vue
```

### Register the plugin

> For the SDK to function properly, you must register the plugin with your Vue application using the following properties:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the SDK to function, you must register the plugin with your Vue application using the following properties:
```

> - `domain`: The domain of your Auth0 tenant. Generally, you can find this in the Auth0 Dashboard under your Application's Settings in the Domain field. If you are using a [custom domain](https://auth0.com/docs/custom-domains), you should set this to the value of your custom domain instead.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `domain`: The domain of your Auth0 tenant. This value is in the Auth0 Dashboard under your Application's Settings in the Domain field. If you are using a [custom domain](https://auth0.com/docs/custom-domains), set this to the value of your custom domain instead.
```

> - `client_id`: The ID of the Auth0 Application you set up earlier in this quickstart. You can find this in the Auth0 Dashboard under your Application's Settings in the Client ID field.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `client_id`: The ID of the Auth0 Application you set up earlier in this quickstart. Find this in the Auth0 Dashboard under your Application's Settings in the Client ID field.
```

> - `redirect_uri`: The URL in your application that you would like Auth0 to redirect users to after they have authenticated. This corresponds to the callback URL you set up earlier in this quickstart. You can also find this value in the Auth0 Dashboard under your Application's Settings in the Callback URLs field. Make sure what you enter in your code matches what you set up earlier or your users will see an error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `redirect_uri`: The URL in your application that you would like Auth0 to redirect users to after they have authenticated. This corresponds to the callback URL you set up earlier in this quickstart. This value is in the Auth0 Dashboard under your Application's Settings in the Callback URLs field. Make sure what you enter in your code matches what you set up earlier or your users will see an error.
```

> The plugin will register the SDK using both `provide` and `app.config.globalProperties`, allowing the SDK to be used with both the [Composition API](https://vuejs.org/guide/introduction.html#composition-api) and [Options API](https://vuejs.org/guide/introduction.html#options-api).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plugin will register the SDK using both `provide` and `app.config.globalProperties`. This enables both the [Composition API](https://vuejs.org/guide/introduction.html#composition-api) and [Options API](https://vuejs.org/guide/introduction.html#options-api).
```

::::checkpoint

:::checkpoint-default

> The plugin should now be properly configured. Run your application to verify that:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The plugin is now configured. Run your application to verify that:
```

- the SDK is initializing correctly
- your application is not throwing any errors related to Auth0

:::

:::checkpoint-failure

> Sorry about that. Here's a couple things to double check:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your application did not start successfully:
```

> * make sure the correct application is selected

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify you selected the correct application
```

> * did you save after entering your URLs?
> * make sure the domain and client ID are set correctly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Save your changes after entering your URLs
* Verify the domain and Client ID imported correctly
```

Still having issues? Check out our [documentation](https://auth0.com/docs) or visit our [community page](https://community.auth0.com) to get more help.

:::
::::

> ## Add Login to Your Application {{{ data-action=code data-code="login.js" }}}

Reviewer: Style guide: titles should be sentence case

```suggestion
## Add login to your application {{{ data-action=code data-code="login.js" }}}
```

> Now that you have configured your Auth0 Application and the Auth0 Vue SDK, you need to set up login for your project. To do this, you will use the SDK’s `loginWithRedirect` function that is exposed on the return value of `useAuth0`, which you can access in your component's setup function. It will redirect users to the Auth0 Universal Login page. and, after a user successfully authenticates, redirect then back to the callback URL you set up earlier in this quickstart.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): application should be lowercase

```suggestion
Now that you have configured your Auth0 application and the Auth0 Vue SDK, you need to set up login for your project. To do this, you will use the SDK’s `loginWithRedirect` function that is exposed on the return value of `useAuth0`, which you can access in your component's setup function. It will redirect users to the Auth0 Universal Login page. and, after a user successfully authenticates, redirect then back to the callback URL you set up earlier in this quickstart.
```

> Now that you have configured your Auth0 application and the Auth0 Vue SDK, you need to set up login for your project. To do this, you will use the SDK’s `loginWithRedirect` function that is exposed on the return value of `useAuth0`, which you can access in your component's setup function. It will redirect users to the Auth0 Universal Login page. and, after a user successfully authenticates, redirect then back to the callback URL you set up earlier in this quickstart.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, you will set up login for your project. You will use the SDK’s `loginWithRedirect` function exposed on the return value of `useAuth0`, which you can access in your component's setup function. It will redirect users to the Auth0 Universal Login page. and, after a user authenticates, redirect then back to the callback URL you set up earlier in this quickstart.
```

### Using the Options API
If you are using the Options API, you can use the same `loginWithRedirect` method from the global `$auth0` property through the `this` accessor.

::::checkpoint

:::checkpoint-default

> You should now be able to log in using a username and password.

Reviewer: I would just say:

```suggestion
You should now be able to log in using Auth0 Universal Login.
```

The user might actually use a social login instead of a username and password.

Click the login button and verify that:

> * your Vue Application redirects you to the Auth0 Universal Login page

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): application should be lowercase

```suggestion
* your Vue application redirects you to the Auth0 Universal Login page
```

* you can log in or sign up
* Auth0 redirects you to your application using the value of the `redirectUri` you used to configure the plugin.

:::

:::checkpoint-failure

> Sorry about that. Here's a couple things to double check:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you were not able to log in using Auth0 Universal Login:
```

> * you configured the correct `redirectUri`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify you configured the correct `redirectUri`
```

> * make sure the domain and Client ID are set correctly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify the domain and Client ID are set correctly
```

> * make sure the domain and client ID are set correctly

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): Client ID should be capitalized

```suggestion
* make sure the domain and Client ID are set correctly
```

Still having issues? Check out our [documentation](https://auth0.com/docs) or visit our [community page](https://community.auth0.com) to get more help.

:::
::::

> ## Add Logout to your Application {{{ data-action=code data-code="logout.js" }}}

Reviewer: Style guide: titles should be sentence case

```suggestion
## Add logout to your application {{{ data-action=code data-code="logout.js" }}}
```

> Users who log in to your project will also need a way to log out. When users log out, they will be redirected to your [Auth0 logout](https://auth0.com/docs/api/authentication?javascript#logout) endpoint, which will then immediately redirect them to specified `returnTo` parameter.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Users who log in to your project will also need a way to log out. When users log out, your application will redirect them to your [Auth0 logout](https://auth0.com/docs/api/authentication?javascript#logout) endpoint, which will then  redirect them to the specified `returnTo` parameter.
```

> Use the `logout` function that is exposed on the return value of `useAuth0`, which you can access in your component's `setup` function, to log the user out of your application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the `logout` function exposed on the return value of `useAuth0`, which you can access in your component's `setup` function, to log the user out of your application.
```

:::note
To log the user out of your application but not from Auth0, use `logout({ localOnly: true })`.
:::

### Using the Options API

> If you're using the Options API, you can use the same `logout` method from the global `$auth0` property through the `this` accessor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the Options API, you can use the same `logout` method from the global `$auth0` property through the `this` accessor.
```

::::checkpoint

:::checkpoint-default

Run your application and click the logout button, verify that:
* your Vue application redirects you to the `returnTo` address
* you are no longer logged in to your application

:::

:::checkpoint-failure

> Sorry about that. Here's a couple things to double check:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are not able to logout:
```

> * you specified a value for `returnTo` when calling `logout`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify you specified a value for `returnTo` when calling `logout`
```

> * the `returnTo` value is configured as one of the Allowed Logout URLs in your Application Settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify the Allowed Logout URLs in your Application Settings contains the `returnTo` value.
```

Still having issues? Check out our [documentation](https://auth0.com/docs) or visit our [community page](https://community.auth0.com) to get more help.

:::

::::

> ## Show User Profile Information {{{ data-action=code data-code="profile.js" }}}

Reviewer: Style guide: titles should be sentence case

```suggestion
## Show user profile information {{{ data-action=code data-code="profile.js" }}}
```

> Now that your users can log in and log out, you will likely want to be able to retrieve the [profile information](https://auth0.com/docs/users/concepts/overview-user-profile) associated with authenticated users. For example, you may want to be able to display a logged-in user’s name or profile picture in your project.
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Next, you will configure how to retrieve the [profile information](https://auth0.com/docs/users/concepts/overview-user-profile) associated with authenticated users. For example, you may want to be able to display a logged-in user’s name or profile picture in your project.
```

> Once the user authenticates, the SDK extracts the user's profile information and stores it in memory. It can be accessed by using the reactive `user` property exposed by the return value of `useAuth0`, which you can access in your component's `setup` function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the user authenticates, the SDK extracts the user's profile information and stores it in memory. The application can access the user profile with the reactive `user` property. To access this property, review your component's `setup` function and find the `userAuth0` return value.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `user` property contains sensitive information related to the user's identity. It is only available based on the user's authentication status. To prevent render errors, you should always:
```

Author: This seems like unintentional, this paragraph is already below this, so we shouldn't need to add it here.

> Because the `user` property contains sensitive information related to the user's identity, its availability depends on the user's authentication status. To prevent render errors, you should always:
> - use the `isAuthenticated` property to determine whether Auth0 has authenticated the user before Vue renders any component that consumes the `user` property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `user` property contains sensitive information related to the user's identity. It is only available based on the user's authentication status. To prevent render errors, you should always:
- use the `isAuthenticated` property to determine whether Auth0 has authenticated the user before Vue renders any component that consumes the `user` property.

```

- ensure that the SDK has finished loading by checking that `isLoading` is false before accessing the `isAuthenticated` property.

### Using the Options API

> If you're using the Options API, you can use the same reactive `user`, `isLoading` and `isAuthenticated` properties from the global `$auth0` property through the `this` accessor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the Options API, use the same reactive `user`, `isLoading`, and `isAuthenticated` properties from the global `$auth0` property through the `this` accessor.
```

::::checkpoint

:::checkpoint-default

Verify that:

> * you can display the `user` or any of its properties within a component correctly after you have logged in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* you can display the `user` or any of the user properties within a component correctly after you have logged in
```

:::

:::checkpoint-failure

> Sorry about that. Here's a couple things to double check:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are having issues with the `user` properties:
```

> * you added the `isLoading` check before accessing the `isAuthenticated` property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify you added the `isLoading` check before accessing the `isAuthenticated` property
```

> * you added the `isAuthenticated` check before accessing the `user` property

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Verify you added the `isAuthenticated` check before accessing the `user` property
```
